- I didn't kill that man.
- The evidence says you did.
I was set up.
Put down your weapon.
I find it incumbent
that you see the inside of a prison cell.
- I'm looking for Lincoln Burrows.
- Man killed the vice president's brother.
- Why do you want to see Burrows?
- He's my brother.
- I'm getting you out.
- It's impossible.
- Not if you designed the place.
- You've seen the blueprints.
Better than that. I've got 'em on me.
I spoke to your mother.
- If you mean that guy at Fox River...
- He refuses to call him his father.
Take the only thing Burrows has left.
The chair isn't the only way
to take a man's life in prison.
And now scenes
from last week's episode.
Constantly coming up here for count won't
let me do what I need to do to get through.
The only way to stop count is a lockdown.
You'd better get the inmates riled up.
All right! That's it! Lockdown!
The anonymous caller
couldn't have seen Lincoln.
- How do you know?
- Because the call came from Washington DC.
This is Bellick. Our wing has been breached.
Hooke's Law of elasticity.
If we drill holes in strategic locations. we
compromise the wall's load-carrying capacity.
- Take the cuffs off.
- A rookie CO.
- Get out of here. T-Bag.
- I think we can work something out.
No deal.
- Where's my daughter?
- She's fine.
A guard assures us everything is fine.
We have everything under control.
You'd better hope you do.
They're breaking out.
They're breaking...
Shh.
- We need a favour.
- Heavy hitters want this done.
Burrows is as good as dead.
You looking for Scofield?
- Yeah. Turk.
- Come on.
Hey. yo! Stroke is about to get the doc.
Finish what we started.
No one touches the CO. No one.
- Attention all personnel.
Secure the perimeter.
Remove private vehicles from all areas.
- Any word from the governor?
- Not yet. boss.
- Bellick! Get those guys in line.
- Get 'em into formation.
- Going back in?
- Not yet.
We cut the water off about an hour ago.
The stink alone should drive 'em out of there.
- You think that's gonna work?
- No. but it's protocol.
And we're all gonna do this by the book.
- It's the best chance we have.
- Hey!
This is the warden.
What's happening in there?
We got some demands.
Tell them we need the air back on.
We need the AC.
We got a hostage - the guard.
We got a hostage - the new guard.
Find out who's in there.
They got Bob.
And the girl doctor. Tell him we got her.
- Why don't you do it?
- I don't wanna get shot.
And we got the girl doctor.
- The doctor?
- There's only one.
How the hell did that happen?
How did they get their hands on her?
- I thought she was safe in Sick Bay.
- We gotta get her out. We gotta go in now.
- We can't do it. sir.
- Why not?
It's not by the book.
Sir. I've got some updates for you.
Help!
Scofield's in here?
Argh!
You sure he's in here?
Turk.
...
You ain't gonna use that.
You making up the rules now. ese?
- It's my house. You got a problem?
- Yeah. I got a problem. We all do.
No problem.
I swear to God. I'm not gonna say anything.
I didn't see anything.
That's right. badge. You didn't see nothing.
Wait. Don't leave.
Sorry. I'll be back.
Don't worry. I'll cover for you.
Don't worry. CO. All right?
I'm not gonna hurt nobody.
I'm part of the team now.
Help a brother out. Drag that over.
That's the way. Mm-hm-hm-hm.
Please return to your seats
and fasten your seatbelts.
We are making our final approach
into Washington DC.
We need to focus on the real question.
Who wanted Terrence Steadman dead?
The call came from DC.
What does that tell you?
You gotta think past the government.
Anybody could be here.
A business partner. a rival.
Before Steadman was killed.
EcoField introduced
a prototype electric engine
at the techno conference.
$60 barrels of oil would be obsolete
if that thing ever hit the mainstream.
Could be oil. Oil companies.
Suppliers. consumers. everything in between.
Or the government of an oil-based economy.
Like the United States.
- Can I take your soda?
- Sure. Thank you.
At any rate. we land. we meet my guy.
and even if we don't find the person
who tipped off the cops. we find his phone.
The paper trail begins.
Only a matter of time. Doc.
It's only a matter of time.
Help!
That's the governor.
Whatever happens. don't say anything.
Governor. Appreciate you coming.
Since our conversation. the situation has
escalated. But we're making good progress...
Just cut the crap. Warden.
and tell me where my daughter is.
Help!
We got here Tyler Robert Hudson.
That is fancy. CO!
And look at that address - 144 Oak Park...
- What's this?
- Terrace.
Terrace. How'd you swing that. CO?
Sounds like you're about something.
living on a terrace.
I can't wait to kick it on a terrace. What?
Oh.
- This here must be your daughter.
- Put it back.
Prom?
You know what they say
about a prom dress. don't you?
She didn't come home that night. did she?
No. she wore that all night long.
Next morning...
she had to throw that dress in the trash can
behind the motel so her momma didn't see...
Hey. hey. hey. hey. hey!
- What the hell are you doing?
- Kicking with Deputy Dawg. Talking women.
I'll be very clear here.
because you and I face an evolutionary gap.
You ain't gonna hurt this man.
We're locked into this thing now.
Understand?
And he's the only leverage we have.
- Thank you.
- You're welcome.
Now. do we have an understanding?
I'm on your side now. You understand me?
I'm just going with the flow.
You let me know
when you're done with your "leverage".
Let me out!
Let's smoke the bitch out!
Help!
What are you thinking now. Doc?
It ain't gonna hurt real bad
if you make it easy.
If you make it hard. though...
Open the door! Come here!
Open this door! Open this door!
Come on. Grab my hand.
Come on!
Come here. Open the door. Open this door!
I've got you.
Are you all right?
It's OK. I'm not gonna hurt you.
See these pipes?
We're gonna stay on them.
They go through the wall and over the
hallway and they'll get us out of here.
All you have to do is follow me.
- OK?
- Yeah.
OK.
Let's go.
Where did she go?
- Where are we meeting him?
- Georgetown. In a garage.
He's a private investigator. He used
to be my roommate in freshman year at Duke.
- The disturbance has escalated.
- Nick. look.
At least two hostages have been confirmed
in what is now being called a full-scale riot
here at the Fox River State Penitentiary.
Should we go back or keep going?
We should keep going.
You wanna go back and stand there with
the rest of the people who aren't helping?
Come on.
The National Guard responded after Frank
Tancredi declared a state of emergency...
- Come on. honey. It's time to go.
- Hold on. Hold on.
- No word on what caused the disturbance.
- That's not Fox River?
Tensions often run high at this facility.
Fox River is a level-five institution.
housing dangerous...
- What are you doing?
- We have to go. Come on.
- No. Dad might be in trouble.
- He's already in trouble. We can do nothing.
Just don't make a scene. OK?
He gets very uncomfortable with this thing.
Just... Let's just go.
Oh. God forbid. man!
We're just talking about my old man here
and his life. if that's all right with you?
- Leave me out of this.
- I am leaving you out of it.
I left you out of it the day I met you.
Nothing in her life or mine
has anything to do with you.
- I'll pretend I didn't hear that.
- Yeah? Or what?
- This is the kind of crap I have to deal with.
- Let me handle it!
The kind of crap you have to deal with?!
You got no clue. do you?
- Honey...
- Leave me alone! Get off me.
- Don't touch your mother like that. Take that.
- Stop it! Stop!
Go upstairs. LJ. now!
Go!
- You love that man?
- Just go.
- Do what I say.
Turk. why are you doing this? Who sent you?
Why? Why?
Why did you do this?
What's it all about? Who sent you?
Aren't you gonna help me?
You've gotta help me. Please.
Turk!
- Who is your friend?
- You scared the hell out of me.
Who are you talking to?
It's the fish's idea. The devil marks the wall
so you know where to drill the holes.
- You're making holes with an egg beater?
- Crazy. huh? It's called the Hooker Law.
He says that if you poke the exact right holes
in something big and strong. it gets weak.
That's true.
When the wall is weak. we can take it down.
- At least that's the plan.
- Yeah. That's always the plan.
You should never underestimate a wall.
You see. sometimes.
no matter how hard you try.
itjust won't give in.
- Are you all right?
- I'm OK. I'm fine.
Don't let 'em get away.
You know what? I need a minute. I'm sorry.
- It's not much further.
- Just a sec.
We can stop if you want. Catch your breath.
OK. Yeah. I could use a minute.
- Come here. girl. Come here.
- Things should be winding down now.
Pretty soon. the powers that be
will break in and it'll all be over.
It's just a matter of time.
What's happening in A-Wing?
All hell's breaking loose.
But I think if we stay up here.
we should be OK.
I can't believe this is happening.
Yeah. Come here.
Gonna catch you real good. Doc.
I miss you. girl.
I know you want it. girl.
You ever been to Baja?
Mexico?
There's this great place down there.
20 bucks a night.
Hammock on the back deck.
Beers are 50 cents.
25 cents at happy hour.
You ever been to Thailand? Thailand's great.
Michael. if you're trying to calm me down.
you're doing a terrible job.
But I am trying.
Shh! You hear that?
- Why are you here?
- What do you mean?
Crawling around in the ceiling.
risking your life.
You needed help and... I came to find you.
How did you know where to go?
When everything went off in A-Wing. the COs
left the station and I saw you on the monitor.
One of my first assignments on PI.
we were up here cleaning out toxic mould.
Took days. so I'm
kind of familiar with the layout.
- Hope you wore a mask.
- Excuse me?
To prevent inhalation.
Mould can be really dangerous.
Yeah. I wore a mask.
Get up there. Get up there.
The door to the visitation room -
do you ever use it?
Um... Not usually.
but my access card should work.
Get up.
Psst.
Come on.
Let's go.
Come here.
Let's go!
Dammit! Come here!
I understand.
But believe me. Sara is our top priority.
The hell she is!
I ordered a state of emergency an hour ago.
- Get me your commanding officer.
- Right away.
- Now what the hell is going on out here?
- Negotiating. They can't hold out for long.
- Negotiating?
- It's 100 degrees. They're almost out of water.
We are trying to avoid
doing anything extreme.
I don't care if it takes a massacre to get
her out of there. Do you understand me?
- If you're not going to do it. I am.
- Sir.
- Captain. spread the news; you're going in.
- Yes. sir.
It's time to do this my way.
Come here! Come here!
All right.
I got you.
Hey. fish! You gonna keep that nurse
all to yourself?
Stop!
Agh! My knee!
Come on. This way.
Good call. Governor. bringing in the big guns.
- Appreciate your support.
- Captain Brad Bellick.
I sent you a letter earlier this year -
my views on penal reform.
Oh. And what are they?
These inmates don't mess around.
Us COs need to get tough.
Warden Pope's a good guy.
but he doesn't understand
that you gotta grab the situation
by the gonads and take control.
- And is that what you would do?
- Yes. sir. That's exactly what I'd do.
So...
Give me that. Give me that.
- I don't know if...
- Give me that. Demolition runs in the family.
The whole trick is pressure.
Where should I? Here? Good.
You see. you should push hard. but not
too hard. Just like when you. you know...
- But you gotta be careful.
- Yeah. I know.
I mean it. One slip and you'll hit the gas pipe.
Gas pipe?
Yeah. you know.
as in pipe that carries the gas.
- We can't go this way.
- We have to. There's no other way.
- This is it.
- No. it's not.
- It's back this way.
- This won't help.
- Trust me.
- If you're wrong...
We don't have time.
Not too hard. Not too soft.
When I was her age. I had such bad skin.
Acne. they called it.
She looks just like all them girls
that made fun of me.
After I kill you.
I'm gonna crawl out that hole
and call me up a limousine
and me and your baby's going to the prom.
- What's the news with Sara?
- Still trying to find her.
- You don't even know where she is?
- We're on it. Once we do. we'll let you know.
You should listen to Captain Bellick
and gas the whole block.
- Captain Bellick?
- He knows what these guys can do.
You'd better pray
that Sara gets out in one piece.
I do. Governor. but this is still my prison.
Whatever happens. I take full responsibility.
Excuse me.
It's this way.
Yeah.
Yes! We're through.
Time to put this theory to the test.
I guess we start chipping away now.
Right on.
She's all yours. pal.
This is it.
We did it.
That's it.
- Wait. I can't leave you here.
- You have no choice. I'm a bad guy.
All right. go. man. Go. go. go!
Come on. man. Through there. Check this out.
- Can you see the assailant?
- Affirmative. I've got him in sight.
What are you gonna do?
Go back to my cell. Stay out of the way.
- Michael.
- What?
They see us.
- You have to go.
- I can't. They'll kill you.
You go out the door. I'll drop to the floor.
- They're sharpshooters. They won't miss.
- That's why you can't stay.
- What's going on?
- I'm coming. Doc.
Go!
Who's this?
That's my guy.
- Hey.
- Nice ride.
Yeah. You like that?
Cop auction. 300 bucks.
You must be Veronica. Whoever tipped off the
cops about Burrows called from this number.
That wasn't an easy trace.
I hope you're not too bummed.
- Why? What's the problem?
- It's a payphone.
- This is it.
- Anyone could have made that call.
Any one of the million people
who pass through here every day.
That's empty.
What about that?
Federal Energy Commission.
That's interesting.
- Where are you going?
- To see if this guy knows what was in there.
Excuse me.
Do you what was in that space before?
OK. thanks.
Hey. It was the regional headquarters
for a company called EcoField.
- Terrence Steadman's company.
- That's right.
- Hello?
- Veronica.
Who... who is this?
That's the problem. Veronica.
You ask too many questions.
Now I have one for you.
Is Lincoln Burrows really worth it?
Here. give me the phone.
Who is this?
- Nick Savrinn.
- I just want to let you know.
as of now. both of you are dead.
Come on. Let's go.
All inmates have one minute
to return to their cells.
Michael!
Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoa!
I didn't touch the man.
I didn't touch him. Ask him.
Things have changed since we last met.
Relax. partner. I'm in on it now.
The rabbit plan.
Know all about it. So does the CO.
- Why'd you take Abruzzi down?!
- I didn't. He just showed up.
- And the paedophile thinks he's in!
- I know.
Shut up! Where's Michael?
Where's Michael?
Michael! Michael!
Final warning.
- Where have you been?
- All over. Are you all right?
- Yeah. Are you?
- Yes. Yes.
Move!
- We'll take it from here.
- Are you OK?
I'm OK.
- Bellick.
- She's walking. That's a good sign.
Yeah. Astute observation.
Maybe you'd like
to share that with the governor.
- I was tense. I was just trying...
- Next time you bad-mouth me to a superior.
there are gonna be serious consequences.
Do I make myself clear. Captain?
- Yes. sir.
- Good.
Sara!
Sara. Sara.
- Dad.
- Sara. Are you all right? Are you OK?
I told you when you took this job.
I knew something like this would happen.
God. Dad. how about.
"I'm happy to see you alive"?
Well. I just want you to see
what you're doing to yourself.
There is nobody
that is forcing you to be here.
I know. Thanks. Dad.
All right. Let's clean this mess up.
- What's going on?
- We did it.
Those little Hooker holes were right on.
Get everyone out of here. Especially him.
- I'm gonna take care of him myself.
- You're not gonna kill him.
- I'm not coming back.
- It's over! We don't need him.
- You're not gonna kill him.
- You're gonna let him walk?
- That ain't for you to decide!
- After all he's seen?!
- After all he's seen.
- Get out!
Keep your mouth shut and turn left.
Get out!
If we have a problem.
we know where to find you.
Mau-mau.
Forget about it. Just forget about it. all right?
No!
One for the team.
OK. so this is a complete list
of the injured and the dead.
- And it's the whole list?
- Yeah.
Thank you. very much.
Hey. Ron.
Dr Tancredi.
Glad to see you made it out alive.
Yeah. Me too.
Question.
Why did your department assign inmates
on PI to do a toxic mould removal project?
What toxic mould project?
In the crawl space in A-Wing.
PI didn't go there.
We'd never assign inmates to do that.
- OK. sorry.
- No problem.